ABD Arian from Georgetown University is
still with us here on S let's talk about
land day obviously you know the
anniversaries come and go each year the
ideology is set in stone as far as the
Israelis are concerned and all that the
Palestinians can do is remember yeah I
mean you know all of us I think are
quite familiar with that map that famous
map of the shrinking of Palestine going
back from 1948 until the present um you
know so there's there's something to be
said about the fact that the theft of
land has been part and parcel of the
Israeli state going back to its
establishment in 1948 very soon after
the Israeli State uh established certain
laws that basically permitted them on
under this this massively wide umbrella
of of security concerns to be able to
seize any land at any point uh
specifically from Palestinian residents
and citizens of the state and so we've
seen this of course over the years 1976
was the very first commemoration of
lande with a with regard to a specific
incident in which um you know a parcel
of land was taken from Palestinian those
who were happened to be citizens of the
state of Israel and yet obviously had no
rights whatsoever to challenge the theft
of their land and since then we've been
seeing this marked on an annual basis
and we're continuing to see it today you
just mentioned I think before the break
uh about this new announcement of yet
more land that's being confiscated
unilaterally by the state as announced
by one of the Israeli ministers
something we haven't seen at least not
on that scale uh in decades really so
we're we're continuing to witness this
happening not just you know 40 50 years
ago but even today and of course it runs
in Tander with exactly what's going on
in the war in Gaza so the Palestinians
have this this front that they have to
deal with you know conflict and land
grabs and it it's not lost on on Arab
the Arab community in the region I mean
we we've seen demonstrations were in
Jordan only only last night uh on on
Friday evening yet the question that's
continually asked even to me when I'm
away from camera by people across Europe
and when I visit is why do the Arab
countries that have agreements and
recognize Israel not cut their
diplomatic ties seems It's always left
to Central American countries to
actually take the lead well I mean I
think to to understand that question we
have to really look at the state of what
uh Arab politics looks like in this day
and age I mean if we think back just a
decade ago we had mass uprisings in
which the will of hundreds of millions
of people was being represented in the
streets and in in these attempted
revolutions but what happened after that
of course is that there was a kind of an
authoritarian retrenchment we had these
um you know unrepresentative monarchical
and dictatorship regimes that are
essentially installing their will and
imposing their will at the expense of
their population's demands and they're
doing this in part obviously as a means
of of securing their own power all of
them are quite deeply unpopular um but
in addition to that because of just
their absolute dependence economically
militarily diplomatically on Western
countries and so they're completely
beholden to the whims of not just uh
Israel but the United States and the EU
and many other countries and so in that
sense it's it's quite understandable
that they would be simply echoing the
same policies we see coming out of
Washington and London and Paris for the
moment we'll leave it there of course
we'll keep uh your analysis going
throughout the day Abdullah Al Aran
thank you for joining us